# Studying Belief Revision on Twitter

The goal of this project is to investigate cases wherein people overtly express a change of opinion on a subject via Twitter. More specifically, the aim is to attempt to answer at least the first of the following questions: (1) With respect to what issues are people most likely to change their opinion? (2) What kinds of people are changing their minds? (3) What rhetorical strategies make people more likely to change their minds?

To obtain the necessary data to conduct this analysis, I have used one of Twitter's APIs to query for tweets containing the phrases "changed my mind," "changed my opinion," or "changed my view." To be more certain that the resulting tweets actually correspond to a change of opinion, I excluded negations of these statements (e.g., "haven't/hasn't changed my mind") and I also excluded retweets (since retweets do not necessarily represent endorsements of the original tweet).

Using Twitter's counts API, I counted the average number of tweets per day (between 2/25/18 and 3/27/18) that matched the query described in the previous paragraph. There were roughly 1000 such tweets per day with a standard deviation about 50. Therefore, given that I only have access to tweets in the past 31 days, this implies that I should be able to obtain about 30,000 tweets--a reasonable sample size for this project.

Once I have a large collection of tweets in hand, I will assemble a corpus containing the text content from each of the tweets, then I will use standard natural language processing methods to clean this corpus (lowercase, remove punctuation, and stem/lemmatize). Next, I will compute a TF-IDF matrix and use PCA/SVD/K-means clustering to determine the domains within which people are most commonly changing their minds (this addresses the first question in the opening paragraph). I expect that people are more likely to change their minds on relatively trivial issues—particularly those issues that are not heavily politicized—but it will be interesting to test this hypothesis. To investigate the second question posed in the opening paragraph, I could also examine biographical data regarding the authors of each tweet in the corpus. It’s possible that younger Twitter users are more likely to change their minds, or that Twitter users located in urban areas are more likely to change their minds.

In order to address the third question posed in the opening paragraph, further investigation may include an analysis of the content of the news articles that are linked to in the tweet corpus. Specifically, I would pull links to articles included in the tweet corpus and web scrape in order to obtain the content of these articles. Next, I would create a TF-IDF matrix from this corpus of articles and possibly use K-means clustering to group articles based on the similarity of their textual content. I would then investigate some of the following questions: are these articles relatively short or long? Do these articles tend to come from reputable organizations? Are there any interesting commonly occurring words across many of these articles?
